Recording of 101
https://worldbankgroup.sharepoint.com/sites/WBClimate/SitePages/PublishingPages/Introduction%20to%20Clim-1709061129266.aspx

Barbados
do you have some data that show the impact of adaptation financing reducing extreme wheather events and achieving other tangible outcomes? 

The data is limited – meaning it is specific to some projects or sectors rather than global numbers. But several studies show that investing in adaptation generates benefits beyond mitigating the risk of disasters through supporting the development of local economies and generating other co-benefits in terms of air and water quality and reducing emissions. The list of resources at the end of the slides include links to reports that discuss this in more detail. 


One example of adaptation financing reducing impacts is early warning systems which have shown to have significant benefits reducing deaths and losses.


Is China skewing the UMI country numbers?
Yes and no – only some reports consider flows to China at all. So for example, the data from CPI is skewed by investments in China but the data for OECD flows is less so. 

It would be great to share the slides with us after the presentation. 
Session materials will be shared after the session. You can access series materials here: https://worldbankgroup.sharepoint.com/sites/WBClimate/SitePages/PublishingPages/Introduction%20to%20Clim-1709061129266.aspx


The financing needs by region vary substantially. That is interesting in the context of our goal of a 50/50 CCB split between adaptation and mitigation. This goal is being interpreted as applying to each region, but this figure would suggest that shouldn't be the case (ECA and MNA being notably regions with limited adaptation needs).  

This may not necessarily be true because the data is incomplete and because MDB financing does not cover the entire landscape – as mentioned previously in the slides, the doubling of adaptation finance by all MDBs would only contribute to 5-10% of total needs. A majority of financing is from public sources and so MDBs and bilateral agencies do play a critical role. 


South Asia is one of the most vulnerable regions to hydrometeorological and climate shocks with nearly 750 million people havinge been impacted by one or more climate-related disasters in.  the past two decades. It is hard to understand why the needs of the South Asia region are so much lower than other regions as its exposure to hazards is so high. Can you please address how this is calculated? 

This is a great point. As mentioned, we see some surprising trends in the way the needs and flows are estimated and a big part of it is how the requirements are calculated. In many cases, the inability to quantify potential impacts on human life leads to dramatic underestimates in terms of total needs. Similarly, the UNEP report draws on the numbers included in country NDCs and NAPs which may also be incomplete in estimating flows. 
The modelled costs included in the report also do not include costs related to the built environment or labor productivity, or losses of biodiversity and ecosystem services. 
